hey lou sorry sorry for being late
that's all right sorry are we ready um
okay okay
so thank you for coming on and and you
prefer
lou is that right um yeah you could call
me lou
or poo or pooper noodle
yes so what's up what's up with that by
the way
why is your why is your pooper noodle
okay i didn't think we'd do this already
oh no i mean we don't have to i was
sorry is that something i'm not supposed
to ask you about
no no no i can i can i can say um no
it's just kind of like it's an
odd name no yes
sorry it's a bit weird um basically
uh the second time i went
to university i was
as the title suggests very socially
anxious
um i i used to
i had a sink in my room
and i used to i used to pee in the in
the sink because
i i was avoiding my flatmates
um well i mean it started off okay like
freshers week was okay but then i didn't
i ended up staying in my room
on my computer for like a week and then
like i hadn't seen them in a week and i
was like
okay it's been a week like if i see them
now that
it's gonna be really weird so then it
like the weeks tend into months
anyway um so i didn't
i didn't go into the kitchen ever
and i didn't use the bathroom i used to
pee in my sink in my room
and i used to make food in my room as
well
occasionally i would make noodles in the
sink
and in the uk there's this brand called
super noodles
um anyway uh
but um i didn't yeah i
one time i one time i i
i defecated in the sink by accident um
yeah i didn't it wasn't on purpose
normally i would
um normally i would [ __ ] in like
um wait can i swear oh it's too late now
um
normally i'd [ __ ] in like plastic bags
okay um yeah
accident yeah
yeah um but anyway that's what happened
and then the guy i was that who's my
boyfriend at the time
he made a joke called me poop noodle
cause it was the same thing that i made
noodles in and rhyme with superman
yeah so i mean that's i think that's
funny i i also think it's interesting
that you
you know this is not the kind of thing
that people would normally advertise
no no not really
so help me understand that
i i don't
i don't know um i i very
openly i used to talk about this a lot
and like make like sort of
raunchy gaudy sort of jokes and stuff
and talk about that sort of
thing um i i think i felt like
sort of wearing it on my sleeve
helps is that does that make sense
interesting
right so let's let's just put a pin in
that concept
right because i can imagine that if
we're dealing with social anxiety
you know telling the story that you just
did i would i would imagine
makes your social anxiety worse
um yes
yeah yeah does it
i don't know i don't think so are they
interesting
actually no because i'm saying it to you
and i can see your face
yeah that's hard that's really hard but
saying it to like my stream when it's
just a bunch of text
completely different what makes it hard
when you can see my face
um
i didn't i don't know just like your
face
oh no that's my face
no i don't like it
um i just i feel like i
i pay a lot of attention to yeah
expressions
yes and do i
i know that i misinterpret expressions a
lot
as negative and i i don't like looking
at people's faces
well i don't like looking at your face
either
okay so we'll talk about that so paying
attention to people's expressions
right yeah and misinterpreting people's
expressions
i don't think that you're
misinterpreting them by the way
technically
okay i think what you're able to do is
detect
dissatisfaction in a face that primarily
is satisfied if that makes sense so
there's actually research on this
so let me let me explain it from the top
it's a really interesting study
so i'm smiling at you right
and then i get okay i'm mad at you
like there's a transition so smiling
matt
and there's like a transition right you
does that make sense like
this and then this is kind of halfway
and then like this
yeah yeah yeah so there's there's a
transition so if you think about it
halfway between smiling and being mad at
you my face is displaying 50
happiness 50 anger does that make sense
yes i think so so a normal person and i
don't mean to say you're abnormal i mean
someone who's not as sensitive as you
are like literally your brain has a
higher processing power
here okay so okay so most people they're
processing power when they when they see
like the half angry half happy face
they they're just confused they think i
don't know what this person is feeling
does that make sense because it's like
half smiling half angry it's like what
is that person feeling i don't know
and even if you think about it when i'm
80 smiling and 20
angry most people will think that i'm
happy
does that make sense yes but people who
have
social anxiety or some other
it's not even a psychiatric thing but
like there's some other diagnoses that
are associated
with the ability to detect negative
affect or negative emotion in someone's
face
even though it's hidden so you'll be
able to detect the 20
anger with the 80 smile
and your brain will tell you oh that
person is still 20 angry
does that make sense so it's not that
you that you're like
you're detecting false things you're
just detecting a small amount of
dissatisfaction
in spite of the large amount of approval
and your brain is clueing you in to that
signal but it's not like it's in your
head it's literally that your brain
is more sophisticated and can detect
low negative emotion at very low amounts
okay does that make sense
yes absolutely the other interesting
thing is that people who've experienced
trauma especially in childhood develop
this skill
so if you look at people who like have
abusive parents
you know if your parents are abusive and
they seem like they're in a good mood
it becomes a survival mechanism to be
able to detect
storm clouds oh is my dad really in a
good mood
or is he like uh happy on the surface
and like a volcano underneath and so
like their brains literally adapt
to detecting like negative emotion
underneath positive emotion okay
it's almost like they have x-ray vision
which is kind of what you want
so the thing that you have to be careful
about is that your
mind will detect 20 dissatisfaction
and that's what your mind will zoom in
on and it'll ignore the 80
so that's something you have to retrain
but your capacity to detect you're
literally more sensitive like you can
detect things
that normal human beings can't people
with anxiety and people with histories
of trauma
are like able to detect things because
their brain has like told them hey like
this
stimulus is actually important so let's
pay attention to that
what do you think about that it made it
sound
much much cooler than i thought it
what did you think about it i don't
um i don't know my
i mean my my parents were lovely yeah so
i i mean obviously there were some
things that happened in my childhood
um but i i couldn't pinpoint
like a single thing that sort of
you know i like i i remember i have
memories of like my mum wearing
sunglasses a lot and whenever she was
wearing these sunglasses i always
thought she was angry at me because i
couldn't see her face
so i always found it quite scary um
and so when she wore them i'd always ask
her to take them off because i couldn't
i couldn't see her face
but like i i have fond memories of of my
parents i don't
yeah i i didn't mean to imply that you
know your parents were abused i'm just
saying that's
what we see yes sometimes
there's two camps there's people with
social anxiety there's also people who
have a history of
abuse growing up they both their their
brain wires to be
sensitive to facial expressions what are
you getting from my face
um
you look a bit bored okay now
oh now you look like you're cringing no
i'm smiling i'm having a blast
okay
this is my board face i guess does this
look like a board face t
wait no it's because i'm i was looking
at
the other because there's a little bit
of a delay wait
do the face again wait are you you can't
see me on discord
um because you're like really really
pixelated so i'm looking at your stream
because you're not
you're not pixley here i'm pixelated
that's gotta be tough um
oh i can see you now okay fantastic
great
so just look at me don't watch stream
and certainly ignore twitch chat i do my
best too
okay yeah sorry for the random ass
tangent
okay
no i was i was just gonna say um yeah
sorry sorry about that
and then so i think there were a couple
things that i really
thought were really important about your
story uh which highlight
so like social anxiety so one is like
this idea that
they haven't seen you in a week so you
can't see them
yeah right and then two weeks go by and
then it's like no
now i can't show my face and every week
that goes by
you ca they can't see you and then every
week it gets worse and worse
and then you have to become a hermit you
have to just like move out of the
apartment
at three in the morning that's exactly
what i did i used to i had this little
pile of cushions that i would put
like right next to the door so i could
sit and listen
for long periods of time to work out
when
they weren't in the corridor and i that
sounds
absolutely crazy doesn't it yeah um
yeah yeah that's that's what happens
i mean like what you said about the it's
been the weeks and then it's been months
thing like i remember one time
um oh isn't it quite a long uh
uber journey and as i got in the car my
seat belt um got stuck in the door so it
was like poking out the door
so i sit in the car but i didn't want to
move over so i was i couldn't
i couldn't actually use the seat belt um
but it had been about 20 seconds by that
point and i felt like oh no if i if i
say something about it now to him and
i'm just a window
yeah like so so i ended up just sat
there for the next like 20 minutes
thinking that i was gonna
die because i wasn't wearing a seatbelt
because i felt too nervous to actually
say hey
can i yeah yeah and then it's like how
do you tell them oh like
five minutes into the journey like oh by
the way i don't have a seatbelt
ten minutes into the journey by the way
i don't have a seat belt on
and then they're like why would why
would you wait 10 minutes and then tell
me you know
it's crazy yeah
i remember one time i had been out of
school for a little while
and then like since i was out of school
like i couldn't go back like what would
people think
yes and then like i had missed classes
and then like how can you show up like
i've i've just been skipping
class because playing video games all
day and then it was like halfway through
the semester if i start going to class
now i can still pass
but can you just like i didn't know like
what to think like there are 30 people
in the class and then halfway through
the semester someone just walks in that
you've never seen before
yes yes and then they're like what are
you doing here and you're like i'm in
the class and they're like no you're not
where you've been this whole time i
couldn't do it
so yeah i mean yeah i dropped out of
university
a few years ago because of i just felt
largely because of that
yeah oh right so i showed up on the day
of my final
and then i i put my head down and i
i thought i was banking on people not
noticing because they would be taking
their final
yes and then took my final and then
walked out
do you know what grade i got in the
class can you guess
i don't how do you grade things
oh yes so a b c d
and f okay how do you grade things where
you are
that way but i don't know i just thought
it might be different
uh a c f wait no did you
oh okay
that's how you fail at class boys and
pulse
so you never go and then you show up on
the final and then you do your best
which is pretty awful
and then i went home and i played a lot
of diablo too to make my feelings go
away
that sounds fun thing it was actually a
lot of fun
it was a blast of semester i really
enjoyed it
alas okay i did actually
have a class that i failed as well
because of that but that was at
this university uh it was it was um
i was studying chinese and i
i went i went for like the first couple
months
and then it dropped off i have this
pattern with everything that i do it
just it slowly drops off
because i miss one thing and then i'm
like well i can't go to the next one
because yeah i wasn't at the last one
and what if they asked me
what happened at the last one i wasn't
there um so anyway yeah
the days turn into a week 10 months i go
to the final exam
um and i throw up
in the room and i get sent home
and i failed the exam yeah
wow yeah it's hard right like when when
the only
way that you can show up the next day is
to have been perfect the day the day
before
yes i hadn't thought of it like that
yeah that's what do you think about that
i don't know i like to be very like
prepared
because things have to go perfect yeah
yeah otherwise i don't go back
yep right so so like
like lou i think you're living life like
these speed runners
or like a single mistake and you have to
start over
yeah so you never make and like that's
great
when you're playing the same game with
the same levels
over and over and over and over and over
again
but it's hard in life where like every
day is a little bit different
it's like you're trying to speed run a
game but you only get to play it once
and tomorrow there's a new game
yeah it's weird i think i understand
that
yeah so chase and perfection
why do you have to be prepared
um should prepare you know
for the worst i i've been told i uh
catastrophize a lot what is that so like
like i don't know how to describe like
for example i used to go to these like
spin classes with my dad um
and suddenly out of nowhere
um i would this thought would pop into
my head that like i'm gonna
spin off the front of the bike and like
die
and like the bike will like explode or
something or something will explode in
the room above me
um and it happens like every time i go
outside
like i'm trying to cross the road this
car is going to run me over
i'm like i'm going to die yeah
it's it's weird to have a mind that
tells you that kind of stuff right
does that make sense i don't i don't
i don't know because it's because it is
my
mind does everyone not have these
thoughts sometimes or do you have those
thoughts
do you not have those thoughts sometimes
um i suppose when i'm drunk
ah i don't catastrophize okay
no okay interesting
um and how long have you been
catastrophizing
like forever okay so you've been doing
it your entire life
oh it feels that way but
maybe not i think so yeah important
revelation right
let's just think about that so so you
just said
yeah i have been doing it and then you
paused
and then you said it feels like it's
been my entire life
yeah so has it been your entire life
no so in the past few years
so let's think about that right so
something when i asked you the question
there's some kind of internal
calculation that says
yes this has been going on forever like
it gave you that answer
yeah like but
it turns out that that's not actually
the case
so then if we're being very careful what
we have to recognize is that sometimes
our mind
produces answers for us that are wrong
yeah that's yeah all the time
can you tell us about that oh oh
uh yeah
like uh oh like this this like just
like last week okay um last year there
was a
stream i was quite uh like
a big fan of had been subbed to him for
a few months okay
like maybe six months i resubscribe and
he's like um
pooper noodle yikes and
he's just like a bit of a joker like
that's just saying whatever he farms
they'll w's
but um instantly i was like oh
my god he hates me i unsubscribed
instantly i unfollowed him everywhere
i just i was mortified
um i avoided watching any videos about
this streamer because i couldn't stop
thinking about this time that he was
like
pooper and it all yikes um and
like a month ago he said something
really nice about me
and i realized that it was
just all in my head yeah looked
completely made up
yeah how do you understand that what's
up with that
i i don't know it made me think of
like lots of other incidents where i've
just in like instantly i'm like okay
this person wants nothing to do with me
i'm just gonna remove myself completely
okay from all of that so let's talk
about that for a second
is that cool yeah yeah
so this person wants
nothing to do with me
hold on can i think for a second yes
how much of your social anxiety can be
captured by that phrase
what phrase this person wants nothing to
do with me
um probably quite a lot of it
okay how long have you felt
how long has your mind been sometimes
randomly telling you that this person
wants nothing to do with me
um i i mean i've always been
like i've always been quite quiet like a
child growing up i my brother was very
social media outgoing um and he would
always
make the friends and then i would like
play with like little toy cars or
something um
one of us
oh yeah so that was that was
that was quite difficult as well because
sometimes we would do things
like as a family and there would be
like maybe another family with like kids
there
and then he would make their friends
first and then
he'd be like you know you know don't
talk to her she's just quiet and weird
and then they would like all go have fun
the night but like i
i did i liked my own company so it
wasn't it wasn't awful
um i just wasn't very outgoing and i
hadn't been difficult to
you know just talk to to kids and stuff
um and then i had some pretty bad
experiences in in high school with like
other girls so then
i didn't know how to talk to girls
anymore for i still don't i don't really
have any friends now that are girls many
at all
um yeah
okay so i asked you about
you know sort of like whether this
person wants nothing to do with me
has oh no oh you asked me something and
i went on complete tangent oh i'm so
sorry
no no don't be sorry i think that's
where we learn
that's wonderful okay i'm glad you went
on a tangent right because you gave us a
couple of really important pieces of
information
one is that while you may have been
socially isolated
the reasons for your social isolation
back then
were fundamentally different because i
didn't hear this person doesn't want to
hang out with me i heard
i was just kind of a quiet shy kid and i
was okay with my own company
so if anything that tells us that like
something happened that changed the way
that you
perceived your interpersonal
interactions which is great
like it's great that you gave me that
piece of information because then we
actually know that you haven't always
been like this
okay does that make sense
yes yes
okay yeah so so yeah okay
yeah go ahead i don't know i just
thought that like
since i'd been quiet my you know whole
life that i'd
always had social anxiety but are you
telling me that that's not quite the
case i could just been quiet and then
something happened along the way that
made me anxious
about social things
that's what i would hypothesize okay
right because what what i'm hearing this
person wants nothing to do with me
says nothing about the person
it says something about you
right yeah it has to do with the way
that you perceive
your value whereas
the girl who's content to play with toy
cars
has no problem with her value in fact as
you put it you used to think the
opposite
i'm a cool person to hang out with all
by myself
i'm very good company right if you think
about it that's actually the exact
opposite you're like hey this person's
awesome
i don't need any of those [ __ ]
i'm gonna hang out with me myself and
lou
we're gonna play with our toy cars and
it's gonna be great
yeah and then somewhere somewhere along
the way you were like oh like
lou's not worth hanging out with that's
different
something's changed does that make sense
that those are
those feel very different to me yes
i um like i had why i had this amazing
family
my childhood was a bit difficult because
we were moving
a lot so i was i was born in thailand
in phuket and we lived there for six
seven years and then
my dad was a teacher and he got a job
then as a headmaster in chile in south
america
so then we lived there for four years so
i was learning different languages
and then after that we we moved to to
england
and while i did make friends i was
always
very different from them and there were
there were
times where like if my friends wanted to
exclude me
they would they would talk in their own
language
so that i couldn't join in
um and i mean that happened in all the
countries apart from england because i
speak english then yeah
what was it like to be excluded
it wasn't fun um
no that there was
quite a um
poignant moment in high school
actually in england where i felt very
excluded
that i think i don't know how to
describe it really shaped the way i
felt about myself i think um
it's it sounds really materialistic
but i was in this group of like maybe
seven girls seven or eight girls and we
were all like best friends
uh but there was a pecking order and i
was
the bottom of the pecking order but it
was fine because like
i it meant i didn't have to sit in the
toilet at lunchtime if i hung out with
them
um and basically
every every birthday because for our
18th it was his 18th birthday so
every birthday everyone would pitch in
20 pounds
and then like the week before everyone
would would go
out and choose a like a special charm
bracelet with a charm for them and then
like a cake and then a little surprise
party and that sort of thing
anyway uh you can probably tell where
this story is going but like
four birthdays happen everyone pitches
in i pitch in
it gets to my birthday uh nothing really
happens
on the day that's fine i'm people busy i
wait a couple of weeks
um one of the girls invites me around to
hers
[Laughter]
sorry um when i walked in
there was like half a box of donuts
and some deodorant that they were like
spraying around i don't know if that was
like a joke
like i smell bad or something that's
probably in my head as well um
but uh these yeah these don't episode
already started eating
um they sang happy birthday i was
waiting for this bracelet
um which yeah that makes me sound really
spoiled but
uh it didn't happen uh i found out
afterwards
that between the sort of seven of them
they only managed to get together about
five ten pounds
um so
well that made me feel pretty [ __ ] um
yeah what does that mean feel pretty
[ __ ] what are you feeling
um i felt
like like these
these people were my friends and they
like even though i'd joined in all the
other i joined in all the birthdays
afterwards
as well um even though i joined in all
this stuff they didn't
they didn't want to do the same for me
and it i just made me feel quite uh
excluded
like they want nothing to do with you
that's the one yeah there it is
so i want to point something else out to
you lou that's interesting because you
call yourself materialistic when you
tell that story
yeah why do you do that because it
is it's quite quite expensive bracelet
everyone pitches in 20 pounds
but to me it wasn't really about the
bracelet it was about
i don't think it's about to bracelet to
anyone who's listening to that story
okay right but i want you to notice what
your mind does
even when you're sharing something that
is
authentic vulnerable and that maybe you
deserve
compassion for what do you do to try to
the kind the what do you preemptively do
to our compassionate response
um to try to like
uh squash it yes yeah right interesting
huh
you see how you're doing that
you're actually devaluing yourself
in the story
you're like look at me i'm a
materialistic little [ __ ]
and then you tell the story which is not
about i don't think anyone
thinks that that's materialistic i think
it's about
fairness and
justice sounds bizarre but like you know
i think it's about value
it's about being valued about being
appreciated
it's not a story about material things
right yeah
yeah i and yet your mind generates this
thought which is like oh i'm so it
sounds kind of materialistic thought we
were going to talk about like
you know everyone had a louis vuitton
bag and like i didn't have one or
something like that
even then that's okay i guess but
you know that sounds to me like they
they really i mean you were
yeah i mean i it doesn't sound to me
like they were your friends
oh yeah but i don't talk to them anymore
it kept
more things kept happening and then i
realized this
just making me sad actually um
they used to sort of say that i always
make myself a victim um
which made well the rest of my life
really hard because whenever anything
happened to me uh i would be like
uh i'm just making myself a victim here
you know
am i overreacting there it is so so do
you see that if you're
if you're just making yourself a victim
what are you doing to yourself
you're devaluing yourself
right you take the
oomph out of whatever complaint you have
blaming the victim and calling someone a
victim
is the last refuge of [ __ ]
because because if if you're just being
a victim all the time then like
i'm perfect the problem's you
right it's a very very very easy way to
dodge any kind of personal
responsibility
to blame the victim or say that
you know lou what's wrong with you
you're a vic like you're so victim
complex like
we got you deodorant and donuts
and the rest of us got charm bracelets
and cakes on our birthday by the way
or near our birthday not as an
afterthought
like why are you whining why are you
making me feel bad for being an [ __ ]
and treating you like [ __ ] it's your
fault
yeah that's that sounds like what they
would say yeah
yeah and then you started adopting the
victim mentality which has
to do with so like if we think about it
like if if you start blaming yourself
for being a victim
you devalue your own experience does
that make sense
yes and so when you devalue yourself
like your worth is a human being and
your mind decreases
does that make sense yeah
and if your worth as a human being is
really low why would anyone want to hang
out with you
that's true i don't know why anyone
would
so so i i think i mean it's kind of
weird but like this idea of this person
wants nothing to do with me
to me feels very connected to this
ah yeah
i think the the value uh thing is
interesting because
i don't know if this is related at all
but um
i used to get my nails done um quite
frequently before
locked down um and they
always turned out okay but there was
this one lady one week who
just felt like she just like got a saw
and just chopping my fingers off like
they were just they were bleeding
and i was sat there like tears streaming
like and she was like oh oh i'm sorry i
hope it hurt
but i didn't want i didn't want her to
feel bad that she was doing a bad job so
i was sat there like oh no
they're fine and then for the following
few weeks
every time i went to shower they would
sting in the shower my nails snapped off
i had to wear plasters on them and i was
i was beating myself up over it like you
know
you're such a [ __ ] you should have just
you should have said you know mate can
you cool off my nails a bit
um but i didn't do that and
yeah i just i kept yeah
i get myself into these situations a lot
so how do you think that's related you
started that off with like i'm not sure
if this is related but
this thing happened to me so you tell me
how it's related
why does your mind go there because
my thing
the pain i was in was worth less
than whether or not she thought she was
doing a good job
beautifully put
right and then what do you do to
yourself so like that's true
but then what happens in the shower what
do you do to yourself
every time you're in pain what does your
mind tell you what
why you such a [ __ ] idiot like yeah
yeah right so like this is kind of weird
lou but like you're setting up
you're playing a rigged game
and it's a game where lou doesn't get to
complain
and it's always lou's fault
yeah how fun is that game to play
um a lot of fun though
yeah sounds quite shitty
i'm thinking but also giving you space
to speak
okay i
okay i don't i don't quite know what to
say
i don't know either so can i think for a
second yeah
yeah go ahead so now that we've
potentially made this discovery
now i'm like okay great now what
that's what i'm thinking okay what do we
do with this
right so let me let me just give you a
second to try to figure out where we go
from here
okay okay that's fine what are you what
are you thinking right now
um it's just a lot of painful memories
just
just came back about tell me about those
girls and tell me tell me something
um so
i just there was it's the same group of
same group of girls there's one time it
was
the first time that i'd ever
this is really embarrassing to say it
was the first time i've ever been like
naked in front of someone
we went to get a spray tan together
um i i was 18
and it was for it was for like the the
prom at the
at the end of like i guess that's what
you have called it was called the levers
ball or something
um but we went to get a spray tan
together i didn't actually know you're
supposed to
like get get naked for a spray tan
so uh that was a surprise um but i did
she had hers done and then i went to get
mine done straight afterwards and then i
went back into the changing room
to put my stuff back on my clothes back
on
and she
she said to me um
what the [ __ ] is wrong with your nipples
they look blue i don't
i mean i don't think i have blue nipples
um but she said that and then she said
um
when you have sex with a guy don't
take off your top because he's not going
to want to [ __ ] you
um and at the time i was just
trying my hardest not to look upset by
this because i knew that she'd call me
sensitive
so i was i was just like okay laughs and
like
joked along and and then when i got home
i couldn't stop thinking about it and
it meant that the rest of my
relationships i
i used to just keep my shares on
crap
what do you think about that story now
i think that my nipples aren't [ __ ]
blue
so there's there's something important
there i mean there's a lot that's
important there but i just want to point
something out to you
yeah you look like you're processing
still
yeah i'm gonna give you a second you let
me know when you're
ready okay
i'm ready so
if someone says something like that
about you yeah
there's a there's like if someone says
something mean about you there's like
this counterpoint right there's like a
no my nipples are normal or whatever
but the point is when someone puts you
down
there's a voice within you that says no
that isn't true
and what did you do to that voice
squashed it yep and so then what becomes
true for you
what's left what they what they said to
me
yeah and so if we think about it like
when we think about
at the very beginning of this
conversation i sort of mentioned to you
that like your mind
generates these thoughts right
and like where do those thoughts come
from they come from like the mind
generates thoughts that it thinks are
true
but the truth like the the thought
generating machines in your mind i think
were formed by experiences like this
because they were allowed to become true
certain opinions
about you as a person stood unopposed
in fact if anything and be careful
because i'm not blaming you for this
because but it could seem like an
indictment i could make it sound like
it's your fault so be careful okay
because
watch out if the victim complex comes up
but you basically
stabbed yourself in the back right
because instead of fighting against that
thought and i'm not
saying that this is your fault so be
careful victim complex don't derise
or if it does arise you let me know but
basically what happened is for a long
time it sounded like you have some real
[ __ ] people in your life
that were laying the foundation of the
way that you viewed yourself
and so like go ahead sorry
i i will say quite
nasty things about myself to other
people
because then it hurts less hearing them
you own it right yeah
why do you call yourself pooper noodle
again
cause because i shot in a sink
and if you call yourself pooper noodle
what does that let you do
um i don't own it
and then it hurts less yeah
we're gonna just sit quietly for a
moment okay
if you need me to say something please
let me know
okay i'm feeling emotions too
okay i have tears welling up in my eyes
that's that's very nice
um okay
yeah what are you feeling right now
um
i don't i don't know i am
this there's something else that i do as
well as say nasty things about myself
and i don't know how to explain this i
don't know why i do it
um but i will
actively go out sometimes but
on a really good day sometimes i will
actively go out online
search my name and look for the really
nasty comments about me and i would i
would do it to myself
and i will look for the nasty things i
don't know if it's to like uh
prepare myself or
i don't i don't know uh
but yeah i do that quite often
that makes a lot of sense to me can i
have a moment to figure out how to
explain it
yes you can
i think it comes down to
well i'm just going to toss out a random
kind of story is that okay
yeah go ahead
sometimes people torture themselves on
social media before they go to bed
it took me a while to like figure out
why they do this but i don't know how
else to describe it but like
you know sometimes when it's like late
at night and you may be feeling good
about yourself you may be feeling bad
about yourself
but then what you do is you hop on
social media and you look at all
of the wonderful things that other
people are doing
and it just makes you feel like [ __ ] but
you just sign up for that torture
like you log on and you gravitate
towards
seeing all of these happy people and
each person that you see
makes you feel worse and worse but you
just keep looking
and you know you do it to yourself and
you do it to yourself
and sometimes you're feeling good and
sometimes you're feeling bad sometimes
it's sort of like
confirming what you already suspect and
sometimes it's like
knocking you down a peg because you
don't deserve to feel good about
yourself
yeah and in your case
i think hope is a dangerous thing
because if hope yep
because you've been
at the bottom of the pecking quarter you
know you can survive that
right like it's familiar territory you
know how to play this game
you've played this game before you're
actually really good at speed running
this game
when lose at the bottom of the totem
pole you spend you spend so much time
knocking yourself down
you know exactly what it looks like you
can survive
that you're actually quite strong and
you know you're strong you know if
people think you're [ __ ]
you'll survive that because you've
survived it for a long time i was about
to say
your entire life but that's not true
what's dangerous
is if you're not at the bottom of the
tone pole because being at the bottom
you're used to falling to the bottom
that hurts so much
more yeah
it's the possibility that you may not be
at the bottom which is absolutely
terrifying
what do you think about that
um i
yeah that's very well put hadn't thought
of it like that
um
yeah i don't know if it's related but
i've always been told i'm quite
pushover um as well
um so
so so so when i am you know assertive
it's a huge victory
for me just just a small thing
like telling a sexy driver that my seat
belt is stuck in the door
um but the the
totem pole thing i
um yeah i don't
i yeah
sorry i'm thinking and trying to speak
at the same time it's not working
i [ __ ] that up on the on a daily basis
i should use your line
um it's a good one
um normally like yeah
normally before like uh doing something
like this
i would i'll drink or like
like because in the past
like at a university and stuff i've
always been really
boring sober and then when i drink
the next day people would be like oh you
you're so much fun
when you drink you stream more often you
should you come out oh
you're so funny last night um so then
i start to think that i'm like i can't
be
funny without without alcohol i don't
drink very often
because i don't socialize very often
maybe like once a month
um but when i do i drink excessively
because i feel like i have to catch up
to everyone else's social level
of of being you know
a social person um so
yeah and then it always backfires
because i can't tell you how many people
that i've tried to make friends with at
university
but um i [ __ ] it up the first night
because they invited me out for drinks
and then i drank too much
and i they had to take me home from the
club and i threw up in the taxi and then
they never spoke to me again
um that's happened
quite a lot i've ruined it for myself
really with the alcohol um
yeah quite good at ruining things for
yourself
yeah yeah pro
you know one of the hardest things about
substances so
i don't know how many people know this
but in my day job i'm actually an
addiction psychiatrist so i work
primarily with addictions
oh you know you know what the hardest
addiction is to crack
it's when people tell me that when i use
the substance
i feel the way that other people look
i feel normal yeah
yeah because it's it's
easy to give up something
but it's hard to give up that which
makes you normal
it's a big ask
yeah that's what it is right you get to
be
normal you get to be funny
you get to have people like you you get
to not think those things about yourself
that sober you likes to think
yeah but then the next day i do
absolutely right
so here's the thing about drinking the
good point
you're not actually normal when you
drink you're just taking a loan
you're gonna have to pay that back right
because all of the self-judgmental
thoughts are gonna come
roaring back and you're actually going
to sabotage your relationships but man
is it really sweet like it's just like a
loan it's like
when i get like a loan from a bank and
i'm sitting on like ten thousand dollars
of cash like
that's awesome i get to buy whatever the
[ __ ] i want
yeah pay it back
i hadn't thought of it like that
right so then and the thing is usually
when it comes substances as i'm sure
you've learned
you pay it back with interest because
then those people
don't call you again in that situation i
think it's fair to say i mean so
don't get me wrong i want to be
compassionate and empathetic
but if you hang out with people for the
first time and you vomit in a taxi
like i wouldn't expect those people to
call you again right you're kind of
[ __ ] up there
like yeah
they had to pay flippy quid yeah
like don't get me wrong i i don't i mean
i i blame you for it and i forgive you
for it because
we're allowed to make mistakes right
that's part of life
but let's like be clear and like it it's
a mistake
yeah drinking too much vomiting in a
taxi and alienating people
generally speaking in the grand scheme
of life is a mistake
yeah now when someone tells you that
your nipples look strange
and you laughing it off and believing
that about yourself and being
self-conscious
that's not a mistake
that really isn't fair for you to think
about yourself
and and it's really mean that she said
that and i the
same part of me that you know
i guess holds you to the standard of
making a mistake for bombing the taxi
also says that you don't deserve that
sure like you deserve the taxi vomit 50
quid
fine but like this the rest of the stuff
that you do to yourself you don't
deserve
you also don't deserve to believe and
i'm not blaming you for believing this
that
you're not a delightful person without
alcohol because you seem delightful to
me
are you drunk right now no okay no
because that would really torpedo my
argument real fast wouldn't it
yeah i think uh
it's interesting that you keep using the
word deserve um
something
so
something happened to me last year um
and i wrote about it online
and for the whole world to see
um and
a lot of people said
uh you know how
how did she not see the red flags
what [ __ ] idiot um
like you know she deserved this to
happen to her sort of thing
and i i i do
i do um sort of believe that
you do believe what
that um i just deserved this bad
thing to happen to me because i was
[ __ ] stupid
i think about that for a second yes
do you mind if i um and i want you to
think about this question before you
answer it
okay do you mind if i add some
or ask you some just basic questions
about context remember we talked about
this
yes are we going to offer more context
are we going to skip past the context
whichever one you want to do um
i
let's get past okay yeah
okay yeah does that feel like the right
move to you
um uh
[Music]
yes okay okay you feeling good about
that
we good you're judging yourself again
what's going on
your face is changing i see it what are
you doing what are you telling yourself
uh the i'm gonna think about this a lot
later
that's okay you're allowed to think
about it what else you're doing that lip
biting thing that you do when you're
judging yourself
uh i i feel bad that i didn't want to
give context nope and
i am worried that i made your show bad
by not doing that
there it is okay so just notice what
happened right so there come the
thoughts again
and you believe them to be true they're
telling you they're true
you see that they feel true to you yeah
are they true i don't know
okay okay good i'll take and i don't
know but just acknowledge that they feel
true that's totally cool
they feel true to you it turns out i
don't think you [ __ ] anything up
that's my opinion okay okay but i'm
maybe your mind sort of tells you oh
he's just saying that
and he would be
almost like i do this for a living
so lou it's it's totally fine man
i think i think we can you don't have to
go into context you're not like a weak
person like oh my god
she'd be so much stronger if she spoke
out because that's what you're supposed
to do
right it's it's you do you man
so be careful because don't there you
like it it's there again too because
you have an impulse which is like this
is what lou wants to do
lou's nipples aren't weird and what do
you do to that impulse
right so so now i want you to really
notice
that that's just your reflex of
devaluing the way that you feel
you're putting you're knocking lou down
to the bottom of the totem pole
for the sake of the show
if i don't give a [ __ ] about the show
you certainly shouldn't give a [ __ ]
about the show
oh all right something changed
right so so how did we do that like how
are you feeling right now
uh uh
exposed okay and how does it feel to
feel exposed
um i'm worrying about
what's gonna happen later
okay okay
i think you're allowed to do that but
but what i'm hearing
is something this so let's just track
through what happened through your mind
right so i asked you
should we ask more context or uh provide
more context or not
and then yeah you didn't want to which
is totally fine
right because i think it's actually not
that important we can get a lot out of
this
okay and and then you started to judge
yourself
and then you were thinking like this lou
is bad in the moment she's [ __ ]
things up now
and then we've sort of noticed that that
you're like beating yourself up again
that you're devaluing yourself remember
the show
is more important than your feelings
like you did it again
yeah that same program it's like a bot
that's just like
auto run stuff for you and then we
noticed it and that and now you started
worrying about the future which i think
is a different bot
but it's not the same bot does that make
sense yes
yeah you weren't like devaluing yourself
you were like just maybe now you're
catastrophizing
or something like that yeah yeah but
beating yourself up and devaluing
yourself is not the same as
catastrophizing
agreed yes
no yeah oh no i forgot what's gonna say
it's okay
what i'm talking about is quite abstract
and hard to hold on to
i also get the sense that you're doing
by the way you're doing really well
i think it's hard for people to learn so
many different things that are new
all at the same time and are able to
keep up
yeah i feel like maybe like 20 of it is
going in
that's why i'm yeah i think it's
probably closer to 80 but that's you
doing it again you see it
but you're gonna take 80 and you're
going to turn it into 20 in your mind
yes do you see how like it's automatic
man
how do you notice it so well i don't
notice it at all
yeah well i mean now we're gonna get to
red flags
so the reason i notice it well are two
reasons one is i'm on the outside
uh-huh right the second thing is
i practice so you can learn to notice it
too because you can notice it if i
point it out to you so all you have to
do is you have certain programming
that has taught you to take opinions
about yourself
and knock them down in the same way you
can start to
program being able to notice opinions
about yourself
and recognize that these are not
actually fair opinions this is just your
programming
you have internalized the opinions of
that group of girls
does that make sense
um yeah sorry i'm bouncing around a lot
you can also
internalize what i am telling you it
just takes practice
so you can learn how to know this too
it's really cool you have to forgive me
i'm an academic so
when i sometimes i could say things
simply and then instead i make them
complicated and hard to understand
it's so it's all right um
it's the way we feel good about
ourselves because then we feel smarter
than everyone else
when we say something and the rest of
the world doesn't understand it just
means we're brilliant and they're idiots
and then we're like oh when actually
we're the ones who are stupid
because if we're teachers our job is to
help people understand
do you think i'm understanding i think
you're understanding a lot more than you
give yourself credit for
okay i'm not making it easy on you by
the way
no this is this is great this is
very uh informative
should we get back to it okay yeah go on
how are you feeling right now real quick
uh oh what did i say
that i felt exposed yeah
yeah yeah i'm worried about later
um what um
okay um um
no um you know what i'm i'm not gonna
skip past it
um see look no she just did
yeah last year
i um i was uh i was assaulted
by someone and um
i wrote about my experience online
and a lot of people
reach out to me afterwards about it
uh people that i hoped i
would never hear from again
for example there those those girls from
high school
read um [ __ ]
nice my stuff and reached out to me
but exes that i hoped i'd never speak to
again
reached out to me um it was
it was it was weird it was really weird
some guy that i went to school with who
i only spoke to like maybe two times
sent me a message on facebook saying oh
hey i read your twitter longer
um if you ever need someone to talk to
i'm here like
i don't i mean i know these people they
mean well
um but i think that's why i feel exposed
right now because i'm i'm
thinking about later like what's
happening yeah like who's gonna reach
out to me and be like hey
i saw i saw your interview you know
oh hope you're doing okay if you need
someone to talk
like but there's people that i don't
want to hear from that's yeah
that sounds really ungrateful um but
oh no i just did it again didn't i ah
how did you learn how to do that
because you made a face
you had like well i've [ __ ] faced
this all the time
okay just a random pile of faces
you really can't blame me for that or
credit me for that
i think that's you learning that's what
learning is like
because i make okay [ __ ] i'm making a
face right now like
what does this mean no one knows
yeah i can't tell yes
my face is about as rng as you can get
okay so let's let's try to put some i'm
gonna try to
organize our discussion a little bit is
that okay yes
do you want some time to think nope i'm
good do you want some time to think
no i'm great okay yeah
so i i see a fork in the road we can
either talk about
like you know what you're experiencing
now about like what is it that makes you
not want to hear from people
what is it that makes you worried about
the consequences of this conversation
or we can go back to this idea of
not seeing the red flags feeling stupid
feeling like on some level you may have
deserved it
which direction do you want to go down
um the
the the deserving one okay
so let's start with red flags can i tell
you story
yes one of my favorite stories so when i
was an intern i just finished medical
school
and i was an intern so like when you're
an intern i'm a psychiatrist but when
you're an intern
you do all kinds of like physical
medicine so i was working in the icu
and things like that learning how to
treat heart attacks and strokes and
pneumonia and all that kind of stuff
so i one time had this patient that was
an elderly woman
who um had pneumonia and
like what happens is you start your
shift at like seven in the morning
and it ends at seven at night so you're
in the hospital for 12 hours
so you're in in the hospital 12 hours a
day
six days a week so um
you know we're taking care of the woman
and she starts to do a little bit worse
her breathing gets a little bit worse
like you know she starts to have
her white count which is like the her
cells that fight infection kind of jump
up a couple things are happening we're
kind of monitoring very closely
throughout the day because she seems to
be moving in the wrong direction
so then when shift change happens around
7 pm my
my colleague shows up at 6 30 and then i
start telling
my colleague about all the patients that
they're gonna have to watch overnight
including my patients so you kind of
tell them about all the patients
and so i tell her tell him about this
woman i said hey you know she's we've
been watching her we're like
she may need to go to the icu at some
point she's not doing as well
and then he kind of takes a look at her
like data and stuff and he's like
listening to the story and she's like
and he starts freaking out he's like
dude she needs to like she needed to be
in the icu hours ago
like look at this man like she's not
breathing well her white count is up
she's like like like just look at her o2
levels her oxygen levels and he starts
like freaking out
and then i start to feel like really
really bad because like as he's
repeating this stuff back to me
like it sort of like makes perfect sense
because he's like listing the data that
everything that i literally just told
him
and when he like packages it and gives
it back to me i'm like oh [ __ ] this lady
needs to be in the icu
and then and then he starts like really
panicking and then he kind of like riles
me up and then i feel terrible because i
and i kind of tell him that you know
when you're an intern you have two
supervising doctors so i kind of tell
them
hey like you know i talked it through
with like the two supervising doctors
and like they felt like we just talked
about this lady like two hours ago we
went and saw her two hours ago
we decided that we didn't think icu
transfer was appropriate
and he's like well that's just idiotic
like she absolutely needs to be in the
icu
she starts paging a bunch of people and
like people show up and they like take
her to the icu and stuff and like i feel
like a complete dumb ass
cause i'm like how did i miss this it's
so obvious
and so then later i went to one of these
like older doctors in the hospital like
these
super wise guy you with me by the way
have i lost you yeah okay
no no and then i i kind of tell them
like one day after like we have this
conference and then at the end of the
conference i kind of tell them hey like
i think i kind of screwed up
and he's like this nice guy that you go
to when you have problems
and i said like i don't know how i
missed this it happened right in front
of my eyes
and what the the doctor said next blew
my mind and he says well that's why you
didn't see it
he's like the hardest things to see are
those that happen
right in front of you right when you're
inside something every step of the way
you don't see the big picture you just
see like one step at a time
and you're stuck in it
and that's how you you miss it like if
you think about things like abusive
relationships or grooming or stuff like
that
each step of the way feels okay
it's when you zoom out that everyone's
like how can this person be so stupid
and like literally if you if i put this
in front of my eyes like i can't see any
right the closer you are to something
the harder it is to notice
even if we think about your thought
process
when your thoughts when you're really
fused in your mind
they feel true to you and they're not
opinions they're facts
they're not thoughts they're not
emotions they're not feelings they're
facts
you tell yourself lou just isn't that
good of a person it feels like a fact
when you gain distance from it
when you learn to see it from the
outside is when it becomes a red flag
when it becomes a problem when it's no
longer true
yes so the first thing is that other
people can see red flags from the
outside but like that's because they're
from the outside
the hardest mistakes to see are the ones
that we make
not the ones that other people make i
mean take any [ __ ] person on the
street they can tell you a thousand
things that you're doing wrong
ask them what are they doing wrong
they've got no answers
so the first thing is are you stupid
i don't think so what do you think
you're allowed to say yes i think i'm
[ __ ] stupid
what makes you feel like you're [ __ ]
stupid you're allowed to believe that
um
i i i
well and i feel stupid like
like just your story i i i missed
a lot of seemingly quite obvious
things but i i didn't want to
to believe that this person was
bad i
i wanted to believe that they were a
good person
it was harder for me to believe that
they were capable of doing something bad
okay so what i'm
it's gonna sound silly lou that doesn't
sound stupid to me
let's just listen to your words i wanted
to believe that this person
was better than they were that doesn't
sound like idiocy
that sounds like faith in humanity and
maybe you can say that faith in humanity
is stupid
but like literally lou what makes me
good at my job is believing exactly what
you believe
anytime someone walks into my office i
want to believe that they can be better
than what they're suggesting
yeah i want to believe that you are
worth
more than you tell me your worth
does that make me stupid
whether i'm stupid or not i'm i choose
to believe it anyway
people can call me stupid for having
faith that you have value as a human
being i know it sounds
a weird sentence but you know like like
i don't think
i don't think you wanting to believe
that someone was better than what you
what they could have been i don't think
that makes you stupid i just don't
or if it does i think stupidity is a
good quality
and i do think that like i mentioned
earlier it's like you get lost and stuff
because it's in front of your face
yeah i mean generally speaking i haven't
seen any
evidence that suggests that like you
know victims of sexual violence
like it's not about iq
it's about emotions power dynamics
kind of like predatory behavior
like victims aren't stupid they're
victims
you know i it doesn't i just don't
accept that
i mean you may be stupid like maybe
you're stupid but that has nothing to do
with you being a victim it's just like
those are different things what do you
think
um i i
feel like i um
uh i feel like i'm not allowed to be
happy because
i i mean i've had i've had people
message me or say things before like you
know this
girl looks way too happy here she's
obviously lying
about about the whole thing so
i feel like i'm not allowed to be happy
because then
um people would um
believe me and you want people to
believe you
more than i want to be happy
that's interesting
so let's think about that for a second
right so i thought that was very
a very authentic representation so what
do you think about someone who wants to
be believed
more than they want to be happy
that they're stupid probably
i can see why you would come to that
conclusion i
i i i think though so what that tells me
lou is that
i i don't think it's stupid at all i
think that
um i laughed because it's i sort of
walked into that one
in terms of your response because like
of course like
why wouldn't people choose happiness but
i think it tells us a lot about you
right so i think this goes back to like
you being seen
and accepted for what you are
and and your entire life you've been
sort of like trying to be you
and people have been swatting you down
and now with something so important
you want them you don't want to swat
yourself down
like you want people to believe you like
you want to say like you know
take your pick like six donuts is not
okay
you know my i was about to make a
comment about your nipples but that's
just gonna get taken out of context
but like you know take whatever whatever
uh
you know context like whatever story
like there have been lots of times where
you've taken what you are on the inside
and you've said i defer to the rest of
the world
what i am gets second place
compared to like what y'all think but
what i'm hearing you do is like put your
foot down
draw your line in the sand and say when
it comes to this
i'm not going to compromise and i need
to be believed
and this did happen and if happiness is
the sacrifice that it takes to be like
authentic and accepted then so be it
yeah that doesn't sound stupid to me at
all
what do you think
i feel um
i i put a lot of pressure on myself
because i
i worry that if
that if i if i
heal and i am happy and someone is like
she looks way too happy to clout
chase and [ __ ] clearly lies about the
whole thing then
what if they discredit
other people's stories as well because
because it seems like i am lying
and then suddenly i
i think i'm catastrophizing sort of
sure see there you did it again look at
that
yeah what are you starting to do
you're gaining distance from your
thoughts because you were like about to
like you were boarding that train
and it was like the seat belt isn't on
it's starting to chug away and you're
like hey hold on a second
can you pull over i need to put the seat
belt on that's what you just did yeah
you just did it
yeah yeah
i did yeah interesting
what happened to that that train of
thoughts once you're like oh i'm
catastrophizing again
i can't remember what i was talking
about there you go
pull the plug on it so if anyone here is
watching this is the way you pull the
plug on anxiety
like i can't even remember like just
imagine if i could give you a pill
that would make you literally forget
your anxieties because that's what we
just saw happen you literally forgot
your anxiety like that's what you can't
even remember what you were talking
about now
yeah oh no i just remembered
see it takes work though doesn't it yeah
okay good because the more you remember
the more you can practice forgetting and
when you get really good at forgetting
when you get really good at noticing
then you'll be in control
but keep going you want to finish your
thought
no okay
so if i if i notice
these things what happens like i notice
it and then what
did it still happen yes
except every time you notice it you gain
a little bit of control over it
right so if i notice my facial
expressions
if i pay attention to them i can
control them
right and if i'm not aware of what i'm
doing
then i don't control it
so awareness precedes control
if you've ever had dental work done and
you've had your mouth numb
you can't control anything in there
because you can't feel it you're not
aware of it
you don't even know where your tongue is
and so once you become aware of
something
then you can do something about it
okay does that how do i
how do i do that with social anxiety
same way it's just it can be harder
right so you're like so i'm helping you
do it and your mind is in a very
aware state right now and you're going
to be exhausted after this i'm going to
be exhausted too
yeah and
and then what happens is like you're
going to do it again and you're going to
do it again and you may have someone to
help you like
therapists may be a good idea in your
case
if you don't have one already and then
you're going to practice this
and then what's going to happen is like
maybe when it comes to
[Music]
you know but i think in social anxiety
it's the same
like you're going to notice yourself
catastrophizing you're going to notice
yourself like you're you're like
someone's going to invite you over
and then you're going to have that
thought pop in your head oh they don't
actually want to see you
they just want your 20 quid and then
you're going to notice that thought
you're going to be like no
actually that's not true they do want to
see me
yeah so it's the same thing
sometimes the stakes can feel higher and
so it can be harder to overcome there
certainly is like level one level two
level three level four
in terms of difficulty but it's the same
i yeah so something happened like
a couple weeks ago where um
i like um everyone at the moment
playing this game among us right and a
couple weeks ago
uh i'm in all these lobbies and i tried
to join this
this random one and there were the
streamers in there who i
i thought i was friends with so i felt
comfortable going in there
i was only in it for like like maybe
three
three games um but i just i had this
really
embarrassing moment where i went into
this
school and like
in my head this was a disaster but in
the call
it i i couldn't imagine anyone in there
probably doesn't remember this at all
um but there was this one guy who was
calling everyone by their names
and then he was calling me by my color
instead of my name
kept calling me orange instead of poop
noodle and it really
upset me and
um eventually i was like hey my name is
pooper noodle
and then it's like it looks like a
little bit of a lull it went a little
bit quiet and then everyone just carried
on
um but after that i i couldn't say
again i just i closed closed the game
left core i didn't want to make a scene
i was like i gotta go
uh and and then i i just i spent like
the rest of the day just crying
about it about about just getting called
orange
uh and it's it was pathetic
okay so i i'm guessing that the reason
you brought that up
is because we're gonna use this as a
case for understanding
is that okay let's analyze it okay
is that that's what i'm seeing
is the clearest relevance to me is that
okay
yes i think it's a great example i think
it's a beautiful example i think it ties
together everything we've been talking
about today
so what would you rather have than
happiness
we were talking about this right
because you felt stupid because you
wanted
i wouldn't want it to be believed yeah
right so this goes back to this idea
that there's like two kinds of blues
there's the real lou and then there's
the loo that everyone else sees
there's a part of you that yearns to be
seen and accepted
and you're willing to sacrifice that
part for the most
most of the time but there are some
things that you're not willing to
compromise on
does that make sense yeah this is like
this is like the real you that's like
fighting to say i don't have blue
nipples
i am a good person i'm worth more than
six donuts
and deodorant you know yeah i'm a cool
person like it's not about popularity or
anything like that but like i'm a good
person and i deserve to be seen
i deserve to be treated and judged for
who i am
as opposed to who people think i am
that's why that person isn't gonna take
orange from anyone
you're not gonna you're not gonna be
orange
do you want them to see who you are
yeah so i think it's that same part of
you
and it speaks up it says damn you
i'm pooper noodle and i would like you
to address me as such
right and then something really funny
happens like so when you do that and you
stand up for yourself
when you tell the driver to pull over
because your seat belt isn't on
then it runs very contrary to all of
this programming
which is like you've been telling
yourself you've practiced really really
hard you've leveled up a lot
in terms of devaluing yourself but
there's this part of you that's like
is trying to break through this like
hard soil and like start to bloom
which is like who you really are and
then sometimes it pops its head up and
then you enter this
period of intense conflict because it
runs
against all of the programming that
you've been doing
which is no no no they get to call you
whatever they want lou
why are you inconveniencing them with
your name
yeah yeah how dare you
how dare you inconvenience them
and so it's like like there's a this
part of you that wants to come up and
then there's this part of you and then
then you're crying all day because like
then it like then you're just kind of
conflicted
and that takes time to sort of work
through right and that too comes with
distance
with sort of taking taking a step back
and recognizing what's going on
recognizing that for a long time this
part of you that
knocked yourself down also i know this
sounds really bizarre
also protected you
because if you knock yourself down and
you hurt yourself
no one can do can out do you
and if you're the one knocking yourself
down at least you're in control
and what you want more than anything
else is control
yeah stacked up pillows against the door
and listening what are you doing you're
trying to get control
you're trying to control the
circumstances
so this is the hard thing about anxiety
you gotta let go of control
you gotta let people judge you and it's
terrifying
yeah i care a lot about other people's
opinions like like way too much
so let me ask you a crazy question
what's harder
knowing that everyone doesn't like you
or not knowing if everyone doesn't like
you
not knowing right no it's weird
yeah anxiety is a strange beast in that
way
you're looking for certainty even you'll
take you'll take a certain
bad thing over an uncertain bad thing
yeah which is like then how the [ __ ]
like no wonder you feel the way that you
do
because it's like i give you two choices
100 chance of failure
50 chance of failure which one do you
pick
you pick for 100 yeah
and then it's like no wonder you're
where you are
yeah but it takes courage to take the
50.
people look at that and they say you're
stupid for picking 100 chance of failure
no they just don't understand that's not
how psychology works you're not stupid
it's that
the other way to think about it is
control versus not control
and are you stupid for picking control
right yeah
yes i don't know what the answer was
yeah i don't know sorry this this is
where i get too abstract
some people follow me some people can't
it's not a big deal it's more on me than
it is on you
okay but does that make sense where you
you sort of at least when you beat
yourself up
you control the pain yeah and you can
survive that you're used to that
yes so i think the orange story is a
great one
because i think it's sort of like you
know you kind of fight against yourself
and then like that thing comes
roaring back and so the next time i
would say the next time you stand up for
yourself
be aware that the part of you that
has made yourself a pushover so that
other people will like you
will be very upset there's one part of
you that's like
i'm going to let other people do
whatever the [ __ ] they want to me
because then they'll like me
and then there's another part of you
that's like nah
because you were upset that everything
went quiet
yeah oh my god
i inconvenienced them i'm sorry lady
who's doing my nails that you're putting
me into physical pain
did i inconvenience you by telling you
that you're physically hurting me and my
nails are bleeding
i'm so sorry
yeah yeah um
that's exactly what goes on yep and if
you
if you would have told her then what
would you do to yourself afterward
what do you think would happen if you
told her to stop
i had i'd been thinking about like
how awkward it was that i had to tell
her just to stop and then i'd be like
analyzing her face like was she sad
about it was she upset that she was
doing her nails
my nails badly i'm terrified of like uh
confrontation
[Music]
and you'd be torturing yourself yeah
you see so anytime lou tries to break
out of the surface
there comes anxiety it's like how dare
you
how dare you be a person lou how dare
you have feelings
how dare you have value
thoughts questions okay
no nothing's going on right now
yep at all i think we're close to being
done for the day
okay how does that feel to you
um
i'm tired yep
i can't already for bed yeah
wait do i look tired there it is
no i i can tell you that you're
cognitively spent
okay i'm cognitively spent too
how do you feel about me saying that
bad yeah see
that's okay is that not a bad thing
do you normally get cognitively spent
yes
okay i'm out of mana
you're out of mana we've been casting
spells for a while
that doesn't make us bad people it
doesn't make us weak it doesn't make us
stupid it just means we're out of mana
we've been doing this [ __ ] for like an
hour and a half now
oh wow yeah yeah
straining your wealth your cognitive
straining your brain for an hour and a
half is gonna make you um
yeah do you want to learn how to
meditate
um oh okay
well then what was that ooh
um
i've tried to do it meditation before
um but two
things i'm very lazy and also
um i
i find that it doesn't maybe i've not
been doing it for long enough
but it doesn't it doesn't quite turn
down
my my thoughts i've i'm terrified of
being alone
with them yeah
okay i think that's
reasonable can i think for a second
yes
i may need longer than a second i may
need a minute or two
oh okay do you
do you want to do if you don't want to
learn how to meditate we don't have to
do anything
first okay okay
what do you think what's the second
thing
is if you do want to learn something
then i'll try to teach you something
i'm wondering if if you're going to take
the out for both of us because i'm not
sure what to teach you
but i'll figure something i have an idea
i oh
i i i just i i
feel like i'm doing it wrong because
it's supposed to help isn't it and it
just
makes things worse is it
am i doing it i've thought maybe
no you're you're not doing it wrong
you're being taught the wrong kind of
meditation
okay okay right it's kind of like if i
walk into the shoe store
and i put on a pair of shoes that's my
size
the problem isn't that my feet are or
like let's say i
put on a pair of shoes it's too big the
problem isn't that my feet are too small
it's that the shoe isn't the right size
right you have to do meditation that
fits
for your mind so i'm just trying to
think about what have you tried
do you like what kind of meditation
doesn't help let's start there
um
mindfulness yep mindfulness is going to
be terrible for you
oh like mindfully
eating and like looking at a little
grape
so let me okay
um so so let's let's think about why
mindfulness is not gonna i mean
we can do a mindfulness practice if you
want but mindfulness
tends to be sitting back and observing
there are two kinds of meditation
there's a focusing meditation and an
observing meditation
one is where you watch what your mind
does
and then the second is when you tell
your mind to do something
so in your case if you're feeling like
pretty anxious i think there are a
couple of breathing techniques that
could help you
but i sort of feel like breathing
techniques isn't the right fit bizarrely
i want to teach you something like a
mindfulness practice
but i want to teach you a very
structured one okay even though i
don't think it's really great for you
but we're going to try something because
i think you actually have a talent for
it in a particular
way we try something a little bit
unusual
yeah okay um i reserve the right for
this to not work
and then i want to be able to try to
teach you something else
okay that okay yeah i want you to close
your eyes
okay okay so today lou we've been
talking about
the different programs in your mind
right so like there's like the lou that
wants to come forward and like wants to
be believed wants to be seen wants to be
heard
and there's the lou that tries to swap
her down
yeah so what i'm gonna do is i want you
to watch carefully now
i'm to make a statement and i want you
to eyes
nope okay how do i pay attention listen
good point like i said i deserve to [ __ ]
this one up
i mean i i reserve the right to [ __ ]
this one up okay
um so i want you to listen carefully to
what i say
and i want you to watch your mind and
watch your mind's response
okay and just notice for a second i'm
just gonna speak
words but that those words they're just
words it's like
you know my name is red
i like balloons words are words they
have no meaning
but i want you to see how the words that
i speak
are going to evoke responses in your
mind
okay and tell me what the responses are
ready
yeah you are a wonderful person
do i do i tell you yeah tell me
what happens in your mind when i say
that
um
just trying to be nice that you are
trying to be nice what happens
eyes closed oh sorry okay
uh whoever saying that just trying to be
nice to me okay
so so you notice how your mind responded
to that right
yeah you swatted it down
yeah okay now number two
you are a terrible person
what does your mind do in response to
that um
[Music]
true okay
so that's kind of interesting right you
see how your mind responds
differentially to those statements
yeah so now what i want you to do is try
to figure out
where do those thoughts come from
uh you're not going to be able to
so just give me what you got when i tell
you to
figure out where they come from what
happens what how can you look for where
they come from
i don't know they just come from from me
okay so where from you good
um
i i don't know okay good
would it okay so good so you're doing it
right i know it sounds weird
so now i want you to think about so when
i say you're a wonderful person
try to find wonderfulness within you
okay
do you have wonderfulness anywhere in
you um
yeah where
um
[Music]
i really like dogs okay
and now so so where do you feel that
right is that a is it a thought or a
feeling first of all
that's a feeling and what does that feel
like
wonderful and where does it where do you
how
how can you know that you're feeling
wonderfulness
what is your experience of wonderful
um
is there a right answer sort of not
really
i've i have no idea okay good
okay now i'm going to tell you something
else are you starting to feel
self-conscious
yeah because my eyes are closed good
notice that self-consciousness
where is that feeling where is that
feeling
everywhere good what does it feel like
tell me
um
like like i'm like i'm gonna fall off a
building or something
yep so so there's a sensation right
of like something terrible is about to
happen
notice the lack of safety with your eyes
being closed
yeah it's like what are people thinking
what is he doing what's his face doing
oh my god what do they think i don't
even know where the computer is
am i sitting in the right place yeah so
you're so notice that the
though all of those thoughts actually
come from the feeling not the other way
around
i want you to notice the vulnerability
is generating thoughts in your mind
does that make sense it's almost like a
fountain that's just generating all
these [ __ ] random thoughts like
is my camera still on am i sitting in
the right place
what are they thinking what are they
saying like you see how it's like it's
like a fountain it's just spewing out
these random ass thoughts
yeah like but somewhere there's a
feeling within you
notice that vulnerability you may feel
it somewhere in your body what do you
feel in your body
um
but what can can can you can you repeat
the question
yeah what do you feel in your body right
now what does
vulnerability feel like in your body
uh i'm sweating okay good what else
um pay attention to your
throat your chest
heart stomach
um
i feel a bit dizzy
okay so now i want you to in a moment
i'm going to ask you to open your eyes
but before i do that i want you to take
a snapshot of the way
take a screenshot of the way that you
feel and then we're going to open your
eyes
and we're going to see how you feel
afterward open
okay what's happening
oh my god that's so weird where am i
what's weird tell me i can see
uh everything's much
smaller than i imagined it okay
so by smaller you mean your fears right
i mean the room okay
cool things are smaller
okay yeah awesome that means you're
doing it right
so okay what about your fears
that yeah that too so interesting
so now we're gonna do it again i know
we're at both oom but
raid boss is at 10 we're going to keep
going you ready
yeah close your eyes again okay
what comes up
um
i can't see again there we go good so
notice that you can't see again
so things are getting bigger yeah your
fears are magnifying
the room is getting bigger
just notice that all of that stuff for a
moment
right notice how bad it feels
and now open your eyes
and now what's happening
it's gone away what's gone away the
scariness okay
so guess what you just learned how to do
was was that meditation
nope yeah sure you just learned to make
the scariness go away in meditation
technique
that's what we're going to call it okay
but
i i want you to really pay attention so
you can try this i think this is
actually a good technique for you
so i want you to just this is going to
be your technique i don't know that's
going to work for anyone else
but what i want you to notice and you
got to tell me if i'm wrong
okay lou you can't please just don't
tell me what i want to hear
what i want you to notice is that the
size of your fears
grows and shrinks
depending on what your eyes being open
or closed
yeah how vulnerable i am [ __ ] dumb
your eyes being opened and closed has
nothing to do with the fears in the
world
has to do with your feelings has to do
with your sense of vulnerability
but the fear is the fear the fear the
actual probability that something bad
happens is not going to change
it's not going to alter wildly in the
span of 90 seconds whether you're doing
this or doing this
does that make sense yeah but
how does it feel
it feels like the fears become bigger
even the roof becomes bigger the
microphone is like in your face right
like everything is like pressing in on
you
with your eyes closed and so what you're
doing is like the world is like
coming in and then you open them and it
zooms out
everything feels smaller bigger smaller
bigger smaller
and so if you do this practice so you
start by doing it by yourself
and then if there's someone that you
trust do it with them in the room
and it's going to make it way harder
and then go and do it in the public
place
oh no right
but here's the here's the crazy thing
blue like stay with me now okay
try really hard you with me do your best
yay all you're doing is
opening and closing your [ __ ] eyes
the world doesn't change that rapidly
do you see how your fears will literally
grow or shrink
depending whether on whether your eyes
are open or closed
but what if i get hit by a car well i
mean
okay so let's work let's not worry about
the public place yet
let's just focus on in the room and with
one person you trust
okay okay i mean what if you get hit by
a car
i i'm not saying you do it while you're
driving okay
i'm saying like like if you have a
balcony
like go out onto the balcony or
something like that
okay but what what i really i don't know
if you're
getting this or not which is fine
because i know you're um and i'm out of
um so i'm asking a lot of you
but what i want you to notice is that
literally your fears can
grow or shrink depending on what your
eyelids are doing
and do you see how like that's just not
literally like how the world works
like my chances of getting hit by a car
don't inc well maybe they do increase or
decrease if my eyes are closed but
bad example or a good example on your
part real five-head player
but generally speaking you know the fear
or your value as a human being or all of
these other things that you're worried
about shouldn't change over the
span of 60 seconds if you open or close
your eyes does that make sense
yeah but the feeling changes rapidly
and so if you do this practice literally
what you're going to
gain is control over your fear
you're gonna learn the process of
shrinking your fears
or growing them and you're gonna see how
the mind shrinks fears and grows them
and as you learn that you're gonna get
literally you're gonna get control over
your fear
because you'll learn cognitively how to
shrink it
it's like a shrink-a-matic for your
fears
i like that
so and even if what i'm saying to you
right now doesn't make sense that's okay
it doesn't need to make sense right now
just do the practice do it a couple
times a week just like go and like close
your eyes and just
notice like it's like closing your eyes
is like opening the doors to your fears
and then opening them is like putting
them all away
yeah and yet it's still you still have
within
you the capacity of putting them all
away
yeah questions i really like that
no that's that's that sounds much better
than
what i was doing before
um yeah yeah
yeah you i think i'm glad it worked i
don't i guess i don't have to come up
with a backup then
oh i'm sorry
no because i just i didn't know because
it's it's a it's it's actually like a
high level meditation technique
it's not like a novice meditation oh
yeah does that make me an
expert in meditation
what does that thought evoke in you
if i were to tell you lou you were an
expert at meditation
what happens um
i don't know it'd be pretty cool yes so
the short answer is yes
yeah let me explain it to you this way
you spend so much time
in your head so you're actually going to
be pretty good at meditation
yeah right because from a very young age
when other people were
interacting with the outside world who
were you interacting with
me so you started leveling up meditation
very young
you've leveled up a skill you just
haven't found the right gear until today
okay oh and so practice it
okay any closing thoughts or questions
before we wrap up for the day
um um
how do i not care about
what other people think of me you do
care about what other people think about
you
you don't not care you just let yourself
care
caring is fine what i want you to learn
lou is not to not
care what other people think it's to
gain distance from the caring
okay right
you're allowed to care what other people
think
but it doesn't have to control who you
are
okay you're perfect the way you are
you don't need to change you just need
perspective on who you are
now it's a weird concept
okay do you feel like he's just saying
that
uh
i don't know just it was just quite nice
and yeah now i'm crying i don't know why
so that's pretty so you know what's cool
about that
is i just called you perfect
and your mind didn't respond with he's
just saying that
you were able to feel it it was able to
sink in
and i'm not saying it to be nice i think
it's genuinely true
i think you're amazing exactly how you
are
and that your life has been a confluence
of circumstances
to make you into a perfect and unique
human being
and that just because you have flaws
doesn't mean that you aren't perfect
and that's part of life it's part of the
journey of growth
and i wish you all the best thank you
thank you very much
do the practice three times a week for
two to three minutes okay okay
yeah okay thanks for coming on blue
okay thank you so thank you so much for
having me
yeah do i do i leave now is that sure
okay all right okay bye okay do you want
to just tell us about your channel
before you go
no no god no bye
[ __ ]
okay so i guess
don't check her out